Author: Nic Williams
ECEN 5032 - Intro to Security - HW1
1/31/17

-----
1. {Checkout} Scenario
-----
Assumptions:
We will assume there is an attentive and competent loss prevention specialist
that has been hired by King Soopers that mans the front kiosk by the self Checkout
registers that functions as the attendant (that helps if you can't find your item
prices, etc.). This means nobody can leave the store without using either a self
checkout kiosk or a regular one. Nobody can leave the store with a cart of things,
or walk out with handfuls of items, or even hide them in clothes, the LPS is that good.

Assets:
- Physical assets - the building, items inside, customers, carts, car park,
supporting infrastructure (electric, water, etc.), and the loss prevention specialist.
- Information Assets - data on what is on the floor and what is in the stocking room,
item classification and pricing system(i.e. barcodes), rewards program and structure,
operational procedures and continuity plans.
- Software Assets - application running the point of sale (POS), and credit card readers.

Threats:
- Attack on physical assets - either breaking or destroying company property in
the hope that the loss prevention specialist will not notice a thief leaving with
items, as they are too busy solving the physical problem.
- Attack on information assets - changing the record of what the store possesses so
it won't notice when inventory disappears, changing the pricing system for a discount
or otherwise cheating the exchange, getting discounts using forged rewards credentials,
or changing the continuity plans to allow for a more successful physical attack.
- Attack on software assets - modifying how the POS operates so it doesn't ring up
items, or modifying the CC readers so they reach a server that always greenlights the
transaction.

Countermeasures:
- Excellent procedures - having continuity plans for when the building is under siege,
when it is being damaged, and when various physical threats are made (power being cut,
etc.) would allow for other employees to handle the situation at hand (starting a generator,
putting out fires, detaining active harmers, etc.) while the loss specialist ensures no
products are lost.
- Securing information - put the stock information on a spreadsheet on a computer that
can't be reached by the internet, and is in a locked room that few have access to. That
way workers will always know what they should see on the floor. Have the pricing system
be static (meaning you upload which things are on sale in the morning to each scanner
and don't change all day) and then turn off network connectivity to the scanners. Have
the rewards program require an official picture, magstripe card, and verify an address
registered in the system so nobody can forge the documents. Only allow the procedures to
be changed by franchise owners, not just store managers, that way the cost to actually
change the plans is years of service and promotion in a company, which isn't worth
the work to steal.
- Tamper-proof/evident POS - again, with no network connectivity after the mornings, it
would only be viable to tamper with these computers in person. Put ink cannons and alarms
inside and only train technicians to disarm them. Make the CC readers have a static server
to contact, and if they can't reach it, deny the sale. This way no modifications can come
to the system without significant effort (i.e. hacking the computer while hard wired to it,
bribing a technician and hoping he doesn't blackmail you).

-----
2. {NSA} Scenario
-----
Assumptions: Buildings are immune to grand theft and attack. Nobody can get in
without card access or with any sort of weapon or harmful chemicals,
buildings are reinforced, and at the first sign of trouble access to inside information
shuts off until override from a national office comes.


Assets:
- Physical Assets - Technology, servers, computers, and people. The NSA has some of
the most advanced super computers in the country (read: costly). The servers maintain
thousands of confidential documents, conversations, texts, and others in an effort
to protect the public and get a leg up on the enemy. The computers power the software
that is used to extract information. Finally, the people have knowledge most of the
world does not, and need to be accounted for.
- Information Assets - listen and record enemy (constituent, at times) radio transmissions, a
list of bad states and men who seek to harm people and other states, write-ups of
all national information gathering techniques, and archives of previous and ongoing
domestic and world investigations.
- Software Assets - breaking into "secure" technologies in order to gain operational intelligence
on an enemy, gaining access to secure communication channels to eavesdrop on the enemy and gain
knowledge passed in confidence, ability to create specific cyber attacks to bring down other
infrastructure.

Threats:
- Attacks on physical assets - outside states coming to employees whether exploiting a vice or
bribery or coercion (kidnapping family members, etc.) to vicariously acquire access to the
system. Giving an employee a bugged outside memory device from a friend or coworker that records
data on the servers and computers. Using a bugged computer to control virtually to redirect server
information to other places to record, then send to the correct target. Ultimately compromising the
technological structure of the agency (creating a botnet or ways into their system remotely).
- Attacks on information assets - Using the technology to listen to particular people to gain information
into blackmailiing them (a competitor out of business, or for money), selling information gathering
techniques to developing countries if acquired, and leaking archives to enemies of the state to give
them an upper hand.
- Attacks on software assets - giving intentionally false messages through all channels to see which creates a
reaction (figuring out which are compromised), and continually spreading false info. Taking this software
and using it on your own leader or managers to gain information on them, acquiring these cyber attacks and
either selling them, or using them.

Countermeasures:
* every threat comes from getting to the employees firstly, just about, so let's combat that *
- Securing employee information - not letting the outside world know who works, what they do, and what
they know. Partitioning each employee to only access information relevant to their work, and forbidding
collaboration to workers from different sectors. Monitoring when devices are attached to the computer,
and if there are secure files on the computer, it shuts down to not allow file transfers. Questionable
computers get quarantined, and servers discontinue communication with it.
- Collecting employee information - knowing who their family is, friends, lovers, and creating an ability
to protect them if need be. Finding out if your employees have vices that can be exploited (through
interviews of friends and references), if they are susceptible to bribes (monitoring bank activity
and lifestyle choices in the even they're given a new unregistered bank account), and maintaining a strict
support policy so nobody is in trouble if they're in a position to be coerced. Monitoring them to make
sure they aren't in contact with anyone they shouldn't be, and that they are secure in how they
relate to their families and partners about their work.
- Recording work done - development of algorithms that will reference the work an employee should be doing
and the files they are accessing, and flags them if those two don't align. Making sure files aren't being
transferred off site for any reason, and ensuring that the computers are immune to any outside access.

-----
3. {TSA} Scenario
-----
Assumptions: No passengers can make it through security without a boarding pass (some kind of ID required) that
is pre-screened by the airline. No passengers can escape security (no lines skipped over/through). No significant
distractions can be made to take security officers away from their jobs, and no amount of brute force, bribery,
or weapons will allow passengers through, either. We are to assume it's a secure facility that all passengers
must go through.

Assets:
- Physical Assets - airplanes, passengers and their possessions, the facility itself (planes and airports would make
for good smuggling holding areas, assuming there isn't great security in/around them).
- Information Assets - logistical information (where planes will be and when), passenger identification information,
cargo itinerary for planes, items passengers are carrying.
- Software Assets - body scanners and their modeling software, x-ray machines and their display software

Threats:
- Attacks on physical assets - passengers may try and enter the cargo holds of airplanes to steal items, money,
or anything being transported. Passengers may try and subtly steal items from other passengers. Passengers may try and
hide in places or hide objects within the airport to gain an advantage over security.
- Attacks on information assets - Passengers might try and learn where certain passengers will be at various times.
Passengers might try and skim other passenger identification information to gain access to secure areas they typically
wouldn't be allowed to. They might try and obtain cargo itinerary to see what local/federal/business items are being
transported to plan a heist or forge documents to smuggle their own objects from airport to airport. Passengers may
try and use the x-ray machines to see what other passengers are carrying on them and either attempt to steal it, or
sell the information.
- Attacks on software assets - changing the display of the scanners so certain textures are shown as normal or not
flagged, changing the sensor calibration so they fail completely in some circumstances, changing where the x-ray
machine routes the display so it gets projected digitally to another location.

Countermeasures:
- Make thieves plan - make sure every door that allows people access to airport assets is key carded, or manned with a
guard checking IDs. Ensure that when these doors are broken into, there is an alarm system and a response team. To
protect from individual theft, ensure the airplane crew are adequately trained in zone scanning and remain attentive
in the cabin during the flight. Finally, put randomly roving teams throughout the airport that make sure nothing
looks suspicious and that nobody is loitering too long in unpopulated areas.
- Disconnect from networks - have the computers load flight itineraries at random times in the mornings, and as flights
change have the updates pushed hardwired through a network. In the event of a power loss or line cut, TSA would have to
employ more complete searches, delaying everyone, if not, shutting down the airport entirely. Keep cargo itineraries on
paper, and the pilot/crew's eyes only, and mark every container inconspicuously. This way nothing can be forged or stolen.
Ensure the viewing ports for the x ray machines are polarized so nobody that isn't directly looking at the screen will
be able to see anything.
- No virtual updates - require all security patches to be from another computer hardwired, or a flash drive, or some
kind of device that must be physically present. Make sure only one employee is responsible for the changes, and all
other employees know who they are. This way, nobody besides that one person could be able to change the systems
functionality. Don't allow passengers past certain points, or too close to ports, or anything of the type, and no
software changes will come.

-----
4. {Original} Scenario
-----
Explanation: deterring criminals from breaking into a house to steal valuables.

Assumptions: The criminals will want to enter the building quietly, so we can assume no explosives will open any doors,
no commercial machinery will be used, and the thieves aren't in a group of more than 5 (cop watch, wheelman, security
expert, one to watch for tenants, one to appraise and steal things and direct crewmen). Ultimately these 5 will not
destroy the house (i.e. cause a massive plumbing failure), as they are after what is inside. They will not kill the
tenants if seen, they will leave.

Assets:
- Physical Assets - Tenants, objects of art/clothing/valuables inside the house, vehicles in the garage, infrastructure
(power, water, etc.).
- Information Assets - Where each person is sleeping, what each room/door has for security, and what the tenants will do
as a countermeasure.
- Software Assets - Garage door openers, security system software, internet and smart objects (TV/dvd/phone/etc.).

Threats:
- Attacks on physical assets - criminals may come in to ransom the tenants. The theives may try to cut power to the home
so most security countermeasures fail. They may try and locate the keys to cars and heist them.
- Attacks on information assets - acquiring blueprints to the house, working for the security company or being friends
of the owners, and having purchase history on the owners.
- Attacks on software assets - opening doors from the outside, disabling the system remotely, using the objects to unlock
doors or turn off lights in certain places.

Countermeasures:
- Secrecy - ensure a safe room is in the house accessible to all. Have a backup generator in the room, or a battery to power
the crucial systems. Lock the keys in the safe room, and leave other less valuable objects available in the house, guarded
by motion sensors.
- Weapons - assuming the thieves are friends of the owners, the only fallback is a contingency known only to the owners,
not anywhere available to the public. In which case the defenders would have the advantage.
- disable the IOT - having fewer susceptible 'smart' objects in the house allows for fewer points of entry. Having the system
only accessible by a mainframe of the company would deter any thief from accessing it.
